Docs/(sakuli/sakuli dashboard#60)/how to deploy dashboard (#61)
sakuli/docs: content/enterprise_features/sakuli-dashboard-docker.md

---
title : "Sakuli Dashboard with Docker"
date :  2019-09-12T14:16:46+02:00
weight : 6
---

# Sakuli Dashboard with Docker

> Once you obtained a Sakuli Enterprise license your docker-user will be granted access to the private Sakuli dashboard image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Attention:** Only Sakuli Enterprise users will be eligible to access the private Sakuli Dashboard Docker images.
```

Reviewer 2: We thought about the same issue, if we should merge all into one file or have seperate files. 
One idea could be to have another drop down section with the name `Sakuli-dashboard` and all files in there. 

The explanation for the different configurations will be handled through another issue, see #61 .

The Sakuli dashboard provides a `latest` tag, which is a tech-preview.

> For a stable version, specify the exact version to ensure consistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sakuli Dashboard releases are versioned following the [semantic versioning scheme](https://semver.org/).
Images for stable releases are tagged accordingly.
Tech-previews of upcoming stable releases are available via the `latest` tag.

**Attention:** It is highly discouraged to run tech-previews in production as there is no guarantee of stability
```

## Docker

### 1 Obtaining the image

> The registered docker-hub user will then be able to pull the private image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sakuli Dashboard images are available to your licensed Docker user via Docker Hub.
```

{{<highlight bash>}}
docker pull taconsol/sakuli-dashboard:<IMAGE_TAG>
{{</highlight>}}

### 2 Running the Sakuli dashboard

{{< highlight bash >}}
docker run --rm \
 -p 8080:8080 \
 -e DASHBOARD_CONFIG="${DASHBOARD_CONFIG}" \
 -e ACTION_CONFIG="${ACTION_CONFIG}" \
 -e CLUSTER_CONFIG="${CLUSTER_CONFIG}" \
 -e CRONJOB_CONFIG="${CRONJOB_CONFIG}" \
 -e SAKULI_LICENSE_KEY="${SAKULI_LICENSE_KEY}" \
 taconsol/sakuli-dashboard:<IMAGE_TAG>
{{</ highlight >}}

Parameters:

- **\-\-rm**: The dashboard container will be removed after execution, not just stopped
- **-p**: Port forwarding to access the dashboard container on port 8080

> - **-e**: Environment variable flags which are used to provide the `SAKULI_LICENSE_KEY` and configure the dashboard

Reviewer: In my opinion these parameters should be moved to a dedicated section.

Configuration stays the same, no matter whether one is using Docker, docker-compose, Kubernetes or OpenShift, so a dedicated section explaining them would be great

## Docker-Compose

To start the dashboard via `docker-compose`, you can use the following `docker-compose.yml` template to configure the

> dashboard.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following template allows you to run a dashboard using `docker-compose`:
```

{{< highlight yaml >}}
version: "3"
services:
    sakuli:
        container_name: sakuli-dashboard
        image: taconsol/sakuli-dashboard:<IMAGE_TAG>
        ports:
            - 8080:8080
        environment:
            - DASHBOARD_CONFIG=${DASHBOARD_CONFIG}
            - ACTION_CONFIG=${ACTION_CONFIG}
            - CLUSTER_CONFIG=${CLUSTER_CONFIG}
            - CRONJOB_CONFIG=${CRONJOB_CONFIG}
            - SAKULI_LICENSE_KEY=${SAKULI_LICENSE_KEY}
{{</ highlight >}}

After creating the `docker-compose.yml` configuration file, you can start the dashboard with:
{{< highlight bash >}}
docker-compose up

> {{</ highlight >}}

Reviewer: This only works if your compose file is in your current working directory and named `docker-compose.yml`
